docs/quick-start.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Quick Start Guide

## Defense Center - Hardware Requirements

In the latest version of Mata Elang, there are huge improvements in terms of performance and scalability. The hardware requirements for the new version change significantly. The following table shows the minimum and recommended hardware requirements for the new version of Mata Elang.

### Minimum

| Component | Minimum Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 4 cores |
| RAM | 8 GB |
| Storage | 100 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Recommended

| Component | Recommended Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 8 cores |
| RAM | 16 GB |
| Storage | 200 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Sensor - Hardware Requirements

Mata Elang Sensor use Snort as the network intrusion detection system (NIDS). The sensor is deployed in the network to monitor the traffic and detect any malicious activities.

:::tip[Note]

The host machine must have at least 2 network interfaces. One interface is used for management, and the other interface is used for monitoring.
The monitoring interface must be in promiscuous mode.

:::

### Sensor Minimum

| Component | Minimum Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 2 cores |
| RAM | 2 GB |
| Storage | 50 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Sensor Recommended

| Component | Recommended Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 4 cores |
| RAM | 4 GB |
| Storage | 120 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

## Software Requirements

Mata Elang Platform requires the following software to be installed on your system:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

## Installation

## Configuration

## Accessing the Dashboard

Commit message:

Enhance Quick Start Guide with project overview and purpose

docs/quick-start.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Quick Start Guide

This guide will help you to get started with Mata Elang. Mata Elang is a network security platform that provides network intrusion detection and prevention system (NIDS/NIPS) capabilities. It is designed to help you monitor and secure your network infrastructure.

## Defense Center - Hardware Requirements

In the latest version of Mata Elang, there are huge improvements in terms of performance and scalability. The hardware requirements for the new version change significantly. The following table shows the minimum and recommended hardware requirements for the new version of Mata Elang.

### Minimum

| Component | Minimum Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 4 cores |
| RAM | 8 GB |
| Storage | 100 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Recommended

| Component | Recommended Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 8 cores |
| RAM | 16 GB |
| Storage | 200 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Sensor - Hardware Requirements

Mata Elang Sensor use Snort as the network intrusion detection system (NIDS). The sensor is deployed in the network to monitor the traffic and detect any malicious activities.

:::tip[Note]

The host machine must have at least 2 network interfaces. One interface is used for management, and the other interface is used for monitoring.
The monitoring interface must be in promiscuous mode.

:::

### Sensor Minimum

| Component | Minimum Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 2 cores |
| RAM | 2 GB |
| Storage | 50 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

### Sensor Recommended

| Component | Recommended Requirement |
| --- | --- |
| CPU | 4 cores |
| RAM | 4 GB |
| Storage | 120 GB |
| Network | 1 Gbps |

## Software Requirements

Mata Elang Platform requires the following software to be installed on your system:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

## Installation

## Configuration

## Accessing the Dashboard
